every spring our skies get woken to the
call of warmer weather by the cries of
swallows and as if by magic nests of
hungry chicks appear from nowhere with
five chicks to feed the adults are
continuously flying in an art with food
parents wanna speed a wide variety of
insects to their nestlings flies are
certainly favorites eight out of every
ten insects Asian art life but often
include what green bottle blue bottles
and horseflies
insects are caught in mid-flight and
parents have been known to travel
several miles from their nest to forage
in Britain swallows are distributed
throughout the whole country Europe
debride northwards as far up as the
Arctic Circle
at around 20 days old chicks begin to
leave the nest and gather on a favorite
line in preparation for their long
migration south they are committed to do
this whatever the weather
but feeding from the adults hasn't
finished yet parents continue to
skillfully fly in with insects in an
effort to keep the ever hungry fledgling
satisfied
as the summer months passed the parents
and young start to depart for their epic
6,000 mile journey to South Africa
flying at speeds of up to 30 miles an
hour they will cover 200 miles a day
mainly flying during daylight
they migrate by day at low altitudes and
find food on the way
despite accumulating some fat reserves
before crossing such large areas as the
Sahara Desert they're still wonderful to
hunger during these crossings
migration is a hazardous time and many
birds die from starvation and exhaustion
as well as falling victim to bad weather
then suddenly one day our goal
disguised in empty and we hope they will
make it back next year
you